---
layout: post
title: "Shut the Fuck Up and Make Shit"
date: 2011-04-28 08:41
comments: true
categories: 
---
I have a new methodology for you[^1].

It's called "Shut The Fuck Up And Make Shit."

I'm not going to a spend a lot of time explaining the methodology because a)
it's pretty fucking self-explanatory, and b) I need to Shut The Fuck Up And
Make Shit myself[^2].

You don't need to buy my book on Shutting The Fuck Up And Making Shit, because
there won't be one. I'm too busy Shutting The Fuck Up And Making Shit to write
it, and I dearly hope that the audience for such a book is too busy Shutting
The Fuck Up And Making Shit to read it.

I won't be presenting at conferences on Shutting The Fuck Up And Making Shit,
because going to conferences and telling people to Shut The Fuck Up And Make
Shit is not Shutting The Fuck Up And Making Shit.

The reasoning behind Shut The Fuck Up And Make Shit is simple: Making shit is
*hard*. Really hard. Want to make a living making shit? Holy shit that's hard.
Want to find people to help you make shit? That's, like, impossible-hard. Want
to make shit that makes the world a better place? Hard, hard, hard. And, I
don't mean 80-hour weeks hard, I mean 10,000 hours of practice hard. 

Because you're going to suck. No matter which shit you decide to make, it's
going to *suck.* It's going to be humiliating and you're going to lose sleep
thinking about how much you suck and some people—bless their black hearts—are
going to be dicks about how much you suck and you're going to worry about the
rent and the outrageous preschool tuition and whether or not you're being a
responsible adult and it's going to seem like everyone you follow on twitter 
has this shit down better than you[^3]. And all that shit is hard. Really hard.

And the only thing for it is to Shut. The. Fuck. Up. And. Make. Shit.

You know what's not hard? Sitting in your fucking Aeron reading books and blog
posts and tweets about how to make making shit less hard. That's *easy*. But
*thinking* about making shit is not the same as making shit. *Planning* to make
shit is not the same as making shit. Not even *tweeting* about the best way to
think or plan about making shit is the same as making shit.

Ultimately, only making shit will teach you how to make shit.

You just have to Shut The Fuck Up and do it.

<hr>
Hi, I'm Art Gillespie. I Shut The Fuck Up And Make Shit For iOS. If you'd like me to Shut The Fuck Up And Make Shit for iOS for your organization, <a href="mailto:art@tapsquare.com">Shut The Fuck Up and get in touch.</a>

[^1]: Well, *new* isn't exactly right. In fact, I'd venture that Shutting The
Fuck Up And Making Shit is pretty much how everything that's ever been done got
done. Ever. 

[^2]: Writing this manifesto is technically Shutting The Fuck Up And Making
Shit, I guess, but it's the worst kind. When the shit you're making is really
navel-gazing about *how to make*, you might as well go read a book on pivoting
on your custdev. 

[^3]: They probably don't by virtue of the fact they're spending so much
fucking time carefully crafting their image in 140 character vignettes.[^4].

[^4]: *Mea fucking culpa.*
